---
title: "Anchore Enterprise Release Notes - Version 2.3.1"
linkTitle: "2.3.1"
weight: 94
---

## Anchore Enterprise 2.3.1

Adds features as well as bug fixes and improvements. Highlighted features are: new parameters in the Reporting service's GraphQL API for specifying time ranges using a relative window (e.g last 30 days), and a new CVE blacklisting rule in the policy language to trigger if specific CVEs are found.

### Added 

+ Added - New reporting GraphQL parameters for relative time-windows on reports (e.g. last 30 days) as alternative to absolute date ranges for all queries with start/end parameters.
+ Added - CVE Blacklisting via new policy rule.
+ Added - New "licenses" field in API response for content (pkgs etc) that is an array type for easier parsing. Supplements existing "license" field that is a comma-delimited list in a single string.
+ Added - Configuration option to disable Repository Add feature in UI
+ Added - Support for custom links/content on UI login page

### Improved

+ Improved - Update base docker image to UBI 8.2 from 8.1.
+ Improved - Faster rhel feed driver execution via parallelized data download
+ Improved - Renamed "Registries" to "Registry Credentials" for more clarity in UI
+ Improved - Ask user if they are sure they want to add a full repository of tags in UI to prevent accidental add of large numbers of tags in UI
+ Improved - Alphabetical ordering of account data in context list in UI
+ Improved - Ability to copy and paste full tag string in image analysis page in UI
+ Improved - Enable vulnerabilities tab even if image has no vulnerabilities in UI

### Bug Fixes

+ Fix - Ability to whitelist VulnDB IDs in policy editor in UI
+ Fix - PDF generation from vulnerabilities fix to not be truncated in UI
+ Fix - Protect against LDAP service tab whitescreen based on service response in UI
+ Fix - Fixes previewing saved query with invalid filter value shows nothing in UI
+ Fix - Fix formatting error on compliance report in UI
+ Fix - Filter entry persists between tabs in UI
+ Fix - Fixes error viewing vulnerabilities for .NET Core images
+ Fix - Fixes payload handling for MS Teams integration for notifications.
+ Fix - Fixes rhel feeds driver to handle updates in upstream data properly 
+ Fix - package_type parameter now handles GHSA matches correctly as non-os types.
+ Fix - Correctly finds java content in cases where file permissions prevent a read.
+ Fix - Updates pyyaml dependency to 5.3.1.
+ Fix - Updates several npm dependencies of the UI.
+ Fix - Fixes API documentation in swagger spec for registry digest-style POST /image call.
+ Fix - Fixes db upgrade failure during upgrades of deployments that still have the 'nvd' data from the deprecated driver.
+ Additional minor bug fixes and enhancements

* **Built on Anchore Engine v0.7.2:** Anchore Enterprise is built on top of the OSS Anchore Engine, which has received new features and updates as well See [Anchore Engine Release Notes]({{< ref "/docs/engine/releasenotes/072.md" >}}) for information on new features, bug fixes, and improvements in Anchore Engine

### Upgrading from Anchore Enterprise 2.3.1

* [Enterprise Upgrade]({{< ref "/docs/installation/upgrade" >}})

